100 Years ago, bay reclusive check Jew, living anonymously, amid Prague expires,
managed to change the way we see the world. He was the son of a shopkeeper,
an insurance lie by trade Bowly. He appeared sickly forgettable,
but inside will inside the Sal young man's mind was alive
with visions of horror,
with paranoia access to dread and alienation working at night,
he took those visions and he etched them onto paper, creating fiction.
Unlike anything seen before that young man's name was France Kafka and his work
would shape the entire 20th century
Born into a German speaking family in the Austria-Hungarian empire Kafka spent
his whole life suffering from illness and anxiety. He was miserable at home,
unlucky in love and too depressed to function anywhere,
but in his insurance office, yes,
he made up for this by having a mind so strange,
so innovative that today he's arguably Europe's famous author.
Join us as we delve inside the work of France Kafka and the awful
life that made it possible.
It was a hot July day in 1883.
When Herman Kafka became a father for the first time,
a Prue shopkeeper from a working class Jewish family,
Herman was a man who'd fought all his life to get where he was.
His battle had been a tough one.
1883 was the era of the Austria Hungarian empire.
When Prague was dominated by Germans and Jews were at a constant disadvantage
through the share force of his gigantic volatile personality.
Herman had managed to take a little clothing, sharp and tan into a bus store.
He'd bought a fancy house, found an educated wife,
even broken into the closed worlds of the German elites.
And now his first son had arrived. The son knew is going to be as sporty,
as commanding as powerful and as straightforwardly dramatic as his old man
affected to be.
It's likely that as Herman took baby France Kafka into his arms for the first
time that he felt a rush of pride, if he did,
it was the last time he had felt anything but contempt for his son.
From the earlier stage,
it was obvious that France Kafka was not the stout hearty man that Herman wanted
him to be. The boy was small and sickly.
He was troubled by boils and afflicted with melancholy from Herman's perspective
was a little like opening a box.
You thing is going to contain a delicious cake only to discover that it instead
contains just bitter disappointment from France Kafka's perspective.
It was like being born into a world where everything you did was doomed to end
in humiliation. Herman was an angry man at the best of times,
but something about his ineffectual son seems to have actively offended him.
He would exploded young Kafka for no reason,
belittle him endlessly for being useless, pathetic failure of a human.
Perhaps it is not surprising that by the time Kafka started school,
his self-esteem was in the gut up still.
While he may have done everything in his power to destroy his son's confidence
at home.
Herman was still at heart, a social climate.
That means making sure that outwardly Kafka appeared to have every advantage in
life as Hermann's business boomed.
He began ending Kafka to the elite out starter star to NA having one of the
families check servants walked the there every morning for the working class
Jew.
It must have been a whole peacock worth of feathers in his cap to send the boy
somewhere so prestigious, but for his shy miserable son,
it was simply hell Kafka hated the school.
He absolutely hated it while he did well academically,
he found the place to be authoritarian, dehumanizing and alienating.
It was around this time that a black parasite first began to tunnel its way into
the boy's brain. That parasite was what we'd call today.
A serious anxiety disorder.
One that made Kafka constantly feel like there was a ball of wire at the center
of his body. Winding of tighter. If you've ever suffered from anxiety,
you'll know that suffering is exactly the right term to use. Well, friends,
Kafka would suffer from it for the rest of his life. However,
the boys teenage years,
they were not all bad news between the emotional abuse at home and his miserable
life at school Kafka needed an outlet somewhere.
He could escape to a warm bar that he would climb into.
It was at this time that the boy started writing
Come 1902 France KACO was studying law at Charles university and writing on the
site. It actually wanted to study chemistry,
but had switched to law after two weeks when Herman pressured him,
because law would look better to the family's middle class friends and with his
son already a self-declared a theist and socialist Herman desperately needed a
new feather for his suddenly Bera looking cap.
Yet even with his father still controlling his life at university Kafka managed
to E out some space for himself. He joins lesser unre,
har doin Stu Aton, uh, literary club, the German speakers.
While this club he met the man who had one day come to define Kafka's legacy.
This man was max broad, born a year after Kafka.
Max broad was an outgoing Jewish, intellectual.
He was charming creative intelligence and everything that Kafka felt that he
himself was not nonetheless the two hit it off, forming their own little clique.
It would be this close friendship that later saved Kafka's writing from the
ashes, but not yet. Rod and Kafka were just students at this time,
a long way from actually publishing their stories.
So when Kafka finally graduated in June of 1906,
it was not into a life of writing and plumbing, the depths of the human soul,
but into a life of working as an unpaid clerk for the local courts to say,
Kafka found this job,
crushingly dull would be to overestimate how exciting it was.
The work left him cranky, depressed, and lethargic worse.
He was still living at home, still dealing with Herman's volcanic,
temper and tiny cruelties. His only solace was that it would soon be over soon.
Kafka would have enough experience to join an international office.
One that would send him abroad and away from his father in October of 1907,
Kafka finally signed up with an Italian insurance company,
fully expecting to be sent down to Italy any day.
Instead he found himself stuck in a Prague office,
dealing with suffocating bureaucracy, unpaid overtime,
brutal hours that left him to exhausted to write.
By the time Kafka finally resigned his dream of living abroad.
It had been crushed. Instead. He meekly resigned himself to staying at home,
to living in Prague and sharing a house with Herman and living with his father's
constant putdowns in August, 1908.
Kafka began his new job at the work of accident insurance Institute in the
shadow of PR castle. He would stay there for the rest of his working life.
But even as Kafka's dream of leaving his abuser far behind faded into distant
memory,
he began to nurture another Kafka's new job finished in the mid afternoon.
If he slept after it finished, that meant he could wake up after dark and spend.
Most of the night writing Kafka would later say that this routine felt less like
a calling or a hobby than a form of communication.
Maybe even a penance with writing being the only way he could atone for the sins
that he was convinced, filled his stick thin body.
That same year Mag's broad convinced Kafka to publish his first stories.
Although they sold poorly, the reaction was good enough to convince Kafka,
to keep writing.
In August of 1912, Kafka arrived at a dinner party.
Max Broad's homes find his friend had an unexpected guest.
It was now four years since Kafka had published his collection of stories and he
was waste deep in the novel that would've later become America, AKA,
the man who disappeared.
But that night literature was the furthest thing from Kafka's mind.
He was too busy thinking about the woman sat opposite him.
If Elise Bower was one of those friends of a friends of a cousin types that the
gregarious broad would invite to his home. A woman usually lived in Berlin,
but was visiting Prague in his diary.
Kafka would later ride that she had a bony E empty face that wore emptiness
openly bare throat, a blouse on almost broken nose, blond,
somewhat straight unattractive hair, strong chin. As I was taking my seat,
I looked at her closely for the first time. By the time I was seated,
I already had an unshakable opinion.
That unshakable opinion was that he was in love this being France Kafka.
The courtship that started that summer evening, it wasn't exactly conventional.
He waited until feles Bower had gone back to Berlin before telling her of his
feelings via letter from then on the two were writing to one another two times
per day, or well, Kafka was at any rate for her part.
Bower seems to have been flattered,
but maybe not quite to the extent of writing long, harder ending letters,
every few hours still her effect on the writer was palpable.
Not six weeks after they'd met Kafka sat down one evening at his desk,
overlooking the Plava river. By the time he got up again, it was Dawn.
His legs were in agony and had just finished his first masterpiece.
The judgements is a hard tale to describe in the it's a typically Kafka short
story without an easy meaning.
The basic plot is that a young man goes to tend to his sick father,
but as the tail progresses,
the father grows in stature and power until like some terrible tyrant king.
He rises from badge and condemns the young man to death by drowning.
The man immediately goes and throws himself in the lava. And well,
it's not exactly hard to imagine where the inspiration for that tale came from
yet. If this tale sounds slight in our description,
actually reading it is a whole other experience that the tale is dark, humorous,
almost allegorical,
but at the same time shot through with a sense of grands of themes.
Looking beneath the surface, just out of reach for Kafka.
It was the first good thing he ever wrote. The moments when he met him,
authorized from a man who did some writing to an actual writer. That's in you a,
he would sit down and write a much more literal tale of metamorphosis about Greg
or Samza who woke up one morning from uneasy dreams to find himself changed
in his bed, into a monstrous ver,
but while the metamorph would be the only work in Kafka's lifetime that sold
well and would remain his best known story.
It was judgements that the author considered to be his masterpiece at the top of
his masterpiece. He scrolled a dedication to miss Felic Bower.
When you look at this period of France Kafka's life, it's remarkable.
Just how closely his work,
how parallels his relationship with Bower remarkable because the two belly ever
met, although they constantly sent one, another letters.
Kafka constantly turned down chances to meet his beloved in the flesh.
He was too busy at work. His writing required attention.
He had a headache and was washing his hair. It's been suggested the,
the paradox at the heart of Kafka's life is that he thought he wanted to be left
completely alone, but secretly craved human contact,
or maybe was the other way rounds still.
He evidently longed for company enough to eventually proposed Bower by letter
naturally on may the 31st, 1914, the couple finally met face to face. Again,
their engagement by party,
surrounded by his family and Felic Kafka felt nothing but bottomless misery
before three months were out. The two had mutually broken off their engagements.
Although they'd wind up getting back together,
you can see clearly the effect this rollercoaster had on Kafka's work.
1914 was the year he abandoned America with just one chat to left to, right?
It's the year he wrote in the penal colony, a grim cruel story.
That's even darker than the judgment.
It's also the year he started his most famous novel of all the trial.
It's the story of a man, Joseph K,
who is charged with a crime without ever knowing what the crime is. The trial.
It's a landmark of absurd alienated fiction for chapter after chapter,
Joseph K tries desperately to find out what he's guilty of while uncovering all
sorts of bizarre figures, grotesque, tortures,
and strange sexualized rituals happening in secret rooms. By the end,
we still don't know, know what crime he committed because it's so ambiguous.
The trial has come to symbolize a million things to a million readers for some
Joseph K's crime is simply that he's human for others.
It's that he's a Jew living in an antisemitic world. Others see,
and it's a premonition of the Soviet union secret police in the 1960s or Wales
made a film version that hinted Joe K was targeted for being gay in short,
the trial is one of those books. That's so universal.
Everyone can see their own experiences reflected in it,
but not during Kafka's lifetime. In 1915,
the reclusive writer slipped the manuscript of the trial into a desk draw and he
never looked at it again.
The following year Kafka ran for this bow spent nearly two weeks in the spar
town of Marion, bad attempting to patch things up.
This worked since on July the 12th, 1917, the two got engaged all over again.
This time they even started making plans to live together in Prague.
But 1917 was also the year France Kafka got some life changing news or
maybe life ending might be more accurate that year.
He was diagnosed with tuberculosis in the early years of the 20th century,
tuberculosis was a death sentence. The disease killed Andrew Jackson,
Jane Austin,
George Allwell and was once estimated to have killed 15% of all people who
had ever lived.
And it would kill France Kafka two in December, 1917,
a sick and Kafka broke off his engagement to Fise for a second time for Fise.
This was the last straw.
She cut off contact with her former fiance and found a more stable man to marry
the part of Kafka that wished he could be completely alone,
had gotten what it wanted
On October the 28th, 1918,
the O Hungarian empire gave one last grown and finally collapsed as world war
I drew to a close Prague found itself no longer under dramatic rule,
but part of a new Republic composed of checks and SL backs that is workplace
Kafka was taken for questioning along with all other German speakers to see if
they, he supported this new regime,
those who were actively against it were fired,
but we can only imagine that Kafka didn't really care much about all that stuff.
He had more important things to worry about in early 19,
19 Kafka was taking some time away from Prague in a boarding house when he just
so happened to meet Julie wack has only 28. He was nearly 80 years as junior,
but still the two fell to talking and bonded over a shared love of Yiddish
theater and risque humor. By the time they both returned to Prague,
Kafka had decided to marry her as firm bases for a lasting relationship go.
There are probably better ones, but still Wareck agreed.
And an excited Kafka ran to tell his parents at which point,
Herman Kafka detonated like a pink and flabby bomb.
If Herman disapproved of his useless son in general,
then you'd have to invent whole new ways of measuring disapproval to understand
how he felt about this whirlwinds marriage for the next few months,
Kafka's father Harang him bullied him brow, beat him over his plans.
At first Kafka tried to stand his grounds,
but a lifetime of belittling had crushed his self-esteem down to nothing in
November 19, 19 Kafka broke off his engagement with Roza,
not long after Kafka left Prague again and checked himself into the same guest
house where had met his second fiance there.
He sat down and composed a letter to his father.
Finally saying all the things he was too scared to say to his face,
running up 45 pages Kafka's letter to his father was his own judgements on
the Tyrons who'd raised him. What's remarkable.
Today is just how clear eye it was.
Kafka was at pains to stress that he understood his father's position.
He knew dragging herself up from a working class background was not an easy
thing to do while Herman may be the villain in our story today.
It's worth remembering that no one in real life is purely evil.
Herman Kafka was just a man who'd been taught by the snobbish society.
He lived in that only being loud,
brash and angry would get him noticed to get him respected.
It's just a shame that he felt these qualities should apply to his parenting.
To at the end of the letter,
Kafka wrote that he hoped his honesty would open the door to an improved
relationship between the two of them,
but then SHA and insecure to the last he chickened out of posting it.
The next year possibly is rebounds.
Kafka started a relationship with one of his translators in Vienna AZE girl
called millennia Syska. But when November rolled around again,
Kafka abruptly broke off the relationship. Once again,
the twisted version of Herman sitting in the center of Kafka's mind had
condemned the writer to a living death.
Kurt VGA once wrote that Kafka's stories exemplify a certain type of fiction in
which the protagonist starts miserable only to see things get continuously
worse. The same was true of Kafka's life. Fair warning.
There's going to be no heroic moments in this tale,
no emotional climax where Kafka managers to find, stand up to Herman,
get the girl and ride off into Prague. Sunset. No,
instead we're going to watch a miserable man's life get continually worse until
it ends. The only way that it can by 1922,
it was obvious what that ending would be that year Kafka's tuberculosis.
It got so bad that he was finally forced to retire from work. In one sense,
this was essentially a good thing.
Kafka had long wished he could devote himself to writing full time.
And now there was nothing stopping him that January.
He began writing his last great work. The castle,
the story of a man known only as Kay,
the castle follows Kay's attempts to meet the authorities presiding over a
snowbound town. Not only to discover his path blocked at every turn today,
the castle is seen as Kafka's most mature novel, but Kafka himself,
he didn't feel this way on September the 11th,
1922 Kafka wrote to max broad to inform him that he'd given up on the story and
he would never turn to it yet.
It wouldn't be fair to say that Kafka had also given up on life. The next year,
the sick man moved to Berlin. One day,
he booked himself a trip to the resort down of merges to try and help his
tuberculosis.
It was while on the shore that Kafka met Dora Dimond a 19 year old socialist.
Dora was 20 years Kafka's junior,
but she was also fiercely intelligent with hard edged political beliefs and a
passionate support for Zionism that CHID with Kafka's own feelings,
admir Murs the two talked and talked until finally it seemed only natural that
Dora would return to Berlin with Kafka,
but don't assume this was some great autumn romance by 1923, Kafka was so sick.
That Dora's role was more that of a live in us than a lover.
She was also Stoney broke. Hyperinflation had ripped Imar Germany,
wiping out Kafka's pension. By November of 1923,
the PA were reduced to using candles to eat their food.
Still Dora's influence was causing Kafka to fill a tiny rev optimism for the
first time in years, he even began making plans to move to Palestine.
But remember, this is the story of France Kafka.
And of course there's no way that fate was going to grant him such happiness.
By early 1924 Kafka's health finally collapsed forced by his doctor to check
into a hospital. Kafka selected a sanatorium outside Vienna,
then gloomily he left Berlin and good as he made his way towards his final
resting place. Kafka found time to stop in Prague.
This was just long enough to give max brought his unfinished manuscripts of the
trial America and the castle,
and asking him to burn them in late March, 1924,
Kafka arrived at the Vienna sanatorium for treatments.
Three months later on June, the third, he died of his illness on his death bed.
He wrote a Dora Diamond's father asking for permission to marrow Dora's father
just cut replied. No, at the time he passed away.
Kafka was a man whose life story seemed to be that of a sickly insurance lawyer
who was unlucky in love and never did anything of note.
His writing was only known by a tiny circle of Prague intellectuals,
and they'd only seen the published stuff.
The bulk of his work had been seen only by Kafka who died.
Having made his best friends, promised burn it all.
Luckily for posterity that best friends just so happened to be Yik consummate
liar.
Many years later,
max broad would reflect on his final meeting with Kafka and offer this
explanation.
According to broad Kafka knew his best friend would never burn his manuscripts.
If he really wanted them destroyed,
he would've asked Doro Herman who've probably burned them with relish.
By asking broad Kafka was in effect asking the one person he knew would ignore
his wishes and try to publish his novels.
And that's exactly what broad did all through the rest of 1924,
brought diligently organized Kafka's papers,
sifting the piles of notes into chapters, grieving them by theme,
figuring out how they might slot into a wider novel. By early 1925,
he was finished that April brought used his literary connect to get the trial
published.
It was well enough received in Europe that the castle followed a year later in
America a year after that, by 1930, all three of Kafka's novels.
Plus his collected short stories were available for European intellectuals to
Marvel like that come 1937. The first English editions even began to appear,
but it would be another decade before the spark really lit after world Wari
publishing houses in America began to take a chance on this long dead author,
because they were hearing so much about him.
People like NAOC saying his praises below the border,
Southern American writers like Markez and Borje vow his work. And the rest,
as they say is history today, Kafka is one of a handful of writers.
Everyone has heard of an author as recognizable as George Orwell,
Edgar Allen Poe, or HP Lovecraft.
But while all these men were known as writers in their day,
even the underappreciated Lovecraft Kafka is maybe the only one who rose
from complete obscurity and brought such complex unique riches with him.
If you go to prag new Jewish cemetery today,
you can still see the shared grave where Kafka and Herman life
eternity side by side.
But while Kafka may not have been able to escape his abusive father,
even in death,
he has now escaped Herman's judgment because history remembers him not as a
disappointment, but as Fran Kafka,
the writer who changed way that we see the world.
So I really hope you found that video. Interesting. If you did,
please do hit that thumbs up bottom below and do not forget to subscribe.
We got brand new videos several times a week or so.
Why not check out our sister channel called geographics? This channel of course,
is about people.
Geographics is about places that is linked to below and as always,
thank you for watching.